well the head of hamas's political
Bureau ishia has blamed Israel for
failing to reach a ceasefire deal on
Gaza before
[Music]
Ramadan until now the enemy has been
evading giving clear assurances and
commitments especially regarding the
ceasefire meaning the sensation of
aggressive Warfare on the Gaza Strip
even hours before this speech I was in
contact with my brothers the
intermediaries and we did not receive
any commitment from the enemy regarding
a ceasefire this means they want their
prisoners to return and then resume the
war on our people and our
Enclave okay will marks joins us live
from occupied East Jerusalem now and
will so much was pinned on getting a
ceasefire done before Ramadan started
clearly that hasn't
happened Tom one of the reasons as just
outlined there by the Hamas leader was
the idea that the Israelis do indeed
want their hostages back and they don't
don't want to feel constricted in their
military activities after any temporary
ceasefire this has been a central
sticking point for weeks now whether
there would be an end to the war as
Hamas would like or whether there would
be a possibility of absolute Victory as
the Israelis would like and and that has
been incredibly difficult for both sides
to reconcile it seems right now that the
latest round of talks that are meant to
be taking place in Cairo Egyptian
officials have been briefing media about
those starting yesterday the Israeli
government press office the Israeli
Prime Minister's office refusing to
comment on whether Israeli delegations
would be traveling to that Hamas saying
they've not even received an invitation
to attend let alone made plans to do so
okay villm we're going to come back to
you in a moment because we've got more
from occupied East Jerusalem where
Israeli forces have blocked the entrance
to the AL Aram mosque compound some
worshippers prayed outside others who
were trying to enter the compound were
beaten by Israeli soldiers at the The
Gate entrance now the alaa compound is
the third holiest site for Muslims and
since October the 7th Israeli
authorities have limited the number of
people that are allowed in okay we're
going to um get more on this from villum
can you just tell us uh a little bit
more about exactly what happened last
night and how tense things are at the
alaka MOs
compound so last night there were
instances where worshippers were blocked
from getting closer to the mosque
through certain routes inside the old
city and there were instances where
police officials police officers seemed
to charge into the crowd to push them
back Sometimes using batons this morning
prayers have been calm there have been
no reported incidents so far at the
start of Ramadan but it's really really
key to understand that here in the
Israeli political establishment this is
something people are very concerned
about Benny Gant the member of the war
cabinet releasing a statement yesterday
calling for calm telling members of the
Israeli Nation who are themselves
Palestinian who might be seeking to
worship inside the alaka mosque that
they have a war right now but it is not
against Islam he said meanwhile on
Saturday though the minister for
National Security here itar benav saying
he felt the police forces that he has
control of inside the old city were not
sufficient to deal with what he cons
considered a threat to security this is
something that plays out both within the
different communities here but also at
the heart part of the Israeli government
and it is something that officials are
very concerned about okay we will be
keeping a very close eye on that villain
marks for us there and occupied East
Jerusalem